README.md, before:

# Microservice with S3 gateway for Rust
A microservice that publish a Rest API based on [salvo.rs](https://salvo.rs/)

## Run Docker Compose (Easy way)

You can run it with `docker compose` for develop enviroment, the complete services are:

- S3 Service
- S3 Gateway Service

### Requirements

- [Docker Compose v2.16.0 or later](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/linux/)

```Shell
docker compose version
Docker Compose version v2.16.0
```

## Run it

Just clone it

```Shell
git clone https://github.com/adempiere/s3_gateway_rs
cd s3_gateway_rs/docker-compose
```

```Shell
docker compose up
```

You can use the `-d` parameter to release the terminal.

```Shell
docker compose up -d
```


## Requirements
- Just install [rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) from page

```Shell
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
```

### Production Requirements

```Shell
apt install pkg-config openssl libssl-dev
```

## Getting Started

### Deploy with docker

You can build images using the follow command

```bash
docker build -t s3-gateway-rs -f docker/Dockerfile .
```

After build just run it

```bash
docker run -d -p 7878:7878 --name s3-gateway-rs -e KAFKA_ENABLED="N" -e KAFKA_QUEUES="menu" -e KAFKA_HOST="0.0.0.0:29092" -e KAFKA_GROUP="default" -e OPENSEARCH_URL="http://localhost:9200" s3-gateway-rs
```

#### Environment variables
- `HOST`: Internal host for container. Default: `0.0.0.0:7878`
- `ALLOWED_ORIGIN`: Define all allowed origins. Default: `*N*`
- `S3_URL`: The S3 URL to connect. Default: `http://localhost:9000`
- `BUCKET_NAME`: The bucket name created on S3 service. Default: `-` fill it.
- `API_KEY`: API Key created on S3 service. Default: `-` fill it.
- `SECRET_KEY`: Secret Key created on S3 service. Default: `-` fill it.
- `RUST_LOG`: The log level for service. Default `info`
- `TZ`: (Time Zone) Indicates the time zone to set in the nginx-based container, the default value is `America/Caracas` (UTC -4:00).

### Running project
Just build it and run

```Shell
cargo build
cargo run --bin server
```

### Console Output
A output generated by the Arduino UNO emulator can be like it:

```Shell
Server Address: "0.0.0.0:7878"
└──!NULL!
    ├──api/presignedUrl
    │   └──[GET] -> server::get_presigned_url
    └──api/resources/<file_name> -> server::index
```

# General Info

## Testing OpenSearch

For test it just run a CURL like this:

```bash
curl --location 'http://localhost:7878/api/presignedUrl?file_name=File.txt'
```

The response:

```json
"http://localhost:9000/test/File.txt?X-Amz-Signature=855063e40b4d606351c4698f1b85bf3e4ba9af320ddd31b65619ddfd5dde0766&X-Amz-Credential=QrhtkEZoeiO4NsI3VQ7j%2F20240201%2Fus-east-1%2Fs3%2Faws4_request&X-Amz-Date=20240201T192400Z&X-Amz-SignedHeaders=host&X-Amz-Algorithm=AWS4-HMAC-SHA256&X-Amz-Expires=604800"
```

For get resource

```bash
curl --location 'http://localhost:7878/api/resources/File.txt'
```

A complete doc [here](https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/18440575/2s9YyvBfUV)

The exported Postman file can be used from [here](docs/minio_s3_postman_collection.json)

Commit message:

docs: Improve readme to upload files.

README.md, after:

# Microservice with S3 gateway for Rust
A microservice that publish a Rest API based on [salvo.rs](https://salvo.rs/)

## Run Docker Compose (Easy way)

You can run it with `docker compose` for develop enviroment, the complete services are:

- S3 Service
- S3 Gateway Service

### Requirements

- [Docker Compose v2.16.0 or later](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/linux/)

```Shell
docker compose version
Docker Compose version v2.16.0
```

## Run it

Just clone it

```Shell
git clone https://github.com/adempiere/s3_gateway_rs
cd s3_gateway_rs/docker-compose
```

```Shell
docker compose up
```

You can use the `-d` parameter to release the terminal.

```Shell
docker compose up -d
```


## Requirements
- Just install [rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) from page

```Shell
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
```

### Production Requirements

```Shell
apt install pkg-config openssl libssl-dev
```

## Getting Started

### Deploy with docker

You can build images using the follow command

```bash
docker build -t s3-gateway-rs -f docker/Dockerfile .
```

After build just run it

```bash
docker run -d -p 7878:7878 --name s3-gateway-rs -e KAFKA_ENABLED="N" -e KAFKA_QUEUES="menu" -e KAFKA_HOST="0.0.0.0:29092" -e KAFKA_GROUP="default" -e OPENSEARCH_URL="http://localhost:9200" s3-gateway-rs
```

#### Environment variables
- `HOST`: Internal host for container. Default: `0.0.0.0:7878`
- `ALLOWED_ORIGIN`: Define all allowed origins. Default: `*N*`
- `S3_URL`: The S3 URL to connect. Default: `http://localhost:9000`
- `BUCKET_NAME`: The bucket name created on S3 service. Default: `-` fill it.
- `API_KEY`: API Key created on S3 service. Default: `-` fill it.
- `SECRET_KEY`: Secret Key created on S3 service. Default: `-` fill it.
- `RUST_LOG`: The log level for service. Default `info`
- `TZ`: (Time Zone) Indicates the time zone to set in the nginx-based container, the default value is `America/Caracas` (UTC -4:00).

### Running project
Just build it and run

```Shell
cargo build
cargo run --bin server
```

### Console Output
A output generated by the Arduino UNO emulator can be like it:

```Shell
Server Address: "0.0.0.0:7878"
└──!NULL!
    ├──api/presignedUrl
    │   └──[GET] -> server::get_presigned_url
    └──api/resources/<file_name> -> server::index
```

# General Info

## Testing OpenSearch

For test it just run a CURL like this:

```bash
curl -L -X GET 'http://localhost:7878/api/presignedUrl?file_name=File.txt'
```

The response:

```json
"http://localhost:9000/test/File.txt?X-Amz-Signature=855063e40b4d606351c4698f1b85bf3e4ba9af320ddd31b65619ddfd5dde0766&X-Amz-Credential=QrhtkEZoeiO4NsI3VQ7j%2F20240201%2Fus-east-1%2Fs3%2Faws4_request&X-Amz-Date=20240201T192400Z&X-Amz-SignedHeaders=host&X-Amz-Algorithm=AWS4-HMAC-SHA256&X-Amz-Expires=604800"
```

For the upload resousrce

```bash
curl -L -X PUT 'http://localhost:9000/test/File.txt?X-Amz-Signature=855063e40b4d606351c4698f1b85bf3e4ba9af320ddd31b65619ddfd5dde0766&X-Amz-Credential=QrhtkEZoeiO4NsI3VQ7j%2F20240201%2Fus-east-1%2Fs3%2Faws4_request&X-Amz-Date=20240201T192400Z&X-Amz-SignedHeaders=host&X-Amz-Algorithm=AWS4-HMAC-SHA256&X-Amz-Expires=604800' \
--data-binary '@/File.txt'
```

For get resource

```bash
curl -L -X GET 'http://localhost:7878/api/resources/File.txt'
```

A complete doc [here](https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/18440575/2s9YyvBfUV)

The exported Postman file can be used from [here](docs/minio_s3_postman_collection.json)
